# Neural Translation of Input Specifications into Formal Grammars for Test Case Generation

by Anonymous

This repo provides the source code & data of our work.

## Abstract

> Test cases are crucial for ensuring the program's correctness and evaluating
> performance in programming. The high diversity of test cases within
> constraints is necessary to distinguish between correct and incorrect
> answers. Automated source code generation is currently a popular area due to
> the inefficiency of manually generating test cases. Recent attempts involve
> generating conditional cases from problem descriptions using deep-learning
> models that learn from source code. However, this task requires a combination
> of complex skills such as extracting syntactic and logical constraints for a
> given test case from a problem, and generating test cases that satisfy the
> constraints. In this work, we introduce a modified context-free grammar that
> explicitly represents the syntactical and logical constraints embedded within
> programming problems. Our innovative framework for automated test case
> generation separates restriction extraction from test case generation,
> simplifying the task for the model. We compare diverse methods for neural
> translation of input specifications into formal grammars.

## Usage

```bash
$ python3 -m venv .venv
$ source .venv/bin/activate
$ source .envrc
```

### Reproducing grammars generated by the CcfgT5 model

```bash
$ python train.py -h
usage: train.py [-h] [--loss-path LOSS_PATH] [--config CONFIG]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --loss-path LOSS_PATH
  --config CONFIG
```

### Reproducing the evaluation results

Place solution files in `data/solutions/{solutions,incorrect_solutions}/`.

```bash
$ make all
$ bash scripts/print/*.sh
```

## Citation

Not available.

## License

All source code is made available under a BSD 3-clause license. You can freely
use and modify the code, without warranty, so long as you provide attribution
to the authors. See `LICENSE.md` for the full license text.
